Glossary of tools (#17)
NMDSdevopsServiceAdm/DataEngineering: Glossaryoftools.md

<br>
### Jupyter Notebooks

>The notebook extends the console-based approach to interactive computing in a qualitatively new direction, providing a web-based application suitable for capturing the whole computation process: developing, documenting, and executing code, as well as communicating the results. The Jupyter notebook combines two components:
>
>**A web application**: a browser-based tool for interactive authoring of documents which combine explanatory text, mathematics, computations and their rich media output.
>
>**Notebook documents**: a representation of all content visible in the web application, including inputs and outputs of the computations, explanatory text, mathematics, images, and rich media representations of objects.

[Source](https://jupyter-notebook.readthedocs.io/en/stable/notebook.html)

To use jupyter, you must first connect to a cluster which was created in EMR as these computers will be used to process the data.
Jupyter notebooks over 40 programming languages, including Python, PySpark, R, Julia, and Scala.

> Jupyter is not used for programming applications as this is more of a research/development environment however, it can be good to use jupyer if you want to analys1e some data without turning it into a glue job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jupyter is not used for programming applications as this is more of a research/development environment however, it can be good to use Jupyter if you want to analyse some data or experiment with modelling without the overhead of a glue job.
```
